feat: move astro config validation after astro:config:setup (#13482)
withastro/astro: packages/astro/src/core/config/schemas/README.md

# Config schemas

There are 3 zod schemas needed to validate the Astro config properly:

> - `AstroConfigSchema` (base): a schema that matches the `AstroConfig` type
> - `createRelativeSchema` (relative): a function that uses the base schema but adds transforms relative to the project root
> - `AstroConfigRefinedSchema` (refined): a schema that handles extra validations. It runs after the user config is validated and for every integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `AstroConfigSchema` (base): a schema that matches the `AstroConfig` type
- `createRelativeSchema` (relative): a function that uses the base schema, and adds transformations relative to the project root. Transformations occur at runtime, and the paths are resolved against the `cwd` of the CLI.
- `AstroConfigRefinedSchema` (refined): a schema that handles extra validations. Due to constraints imposed by the Astro architecture, refinements can't run when the configuration is validated because the referiment changes the initial types of `AstroConfig`. The refinement phase can happen only after the user configuration is validated and every integration has run the hook `astro:config:setup`.
```

I think we can be a bit more technical, by also explaining why this is required.

> - `AstroConfigRefinedSchema` (refined): a schema that handles extra validations. Due to constraints imposed by the Astro architecture, refinements can't run when the configuration is validated because the referiment changes the initial types of `AstroConfig`. The refinement phase can happen only after the user configuration is validated and every integration has run the hook `astro:config:setup`.

Reviewer 2: Question about this:

> refinements can't run when the configuration is validated because the refinement changes the initial types of `AstroConfig`. The refinement phase can happen only after the user configuration is validated and every integration has run the hook `astro:config:setup`.

Do I understand correctly that now the process is this?

1. User config is validated without refinement.
2. Each `astro:config:setup()` hook is run (with validation after to check for errors).
3. After all integrations, the refinement is applied.

If so, doesn’t that mean this PR will change the type of the `config` parameter received by integrations in the setup hook? Currently they receive `config` already with refinements applied, but I guess after this PR they receive `config` without any refinements? I think for example Starlight could be impacted in that case as we read the Astro i18n config for example.

There’s also a small typo here:
```suggestion
- `AstroConfigRefinedSchema` (refined): a schema that handles extra validations. Due to constraints imposed by the Astro architecture, refinements can't run when the configuration is validated because the refinement changes the initial types of `AstroConfig`. The refinement phase can happen only after the user configuration is validated and every integration has run the hook `astro:config:setup`.
```

Reviewer: > If so, doesn’t that mean this PR will change the type of the config parameter

No, the methods `refine` and `superRefine` don't change the emitted types. The starting type and the end type are the same.

It's `transform` that changes the initial type into a new type

Reviewer 2: Ah right, then the docs are wrong here, I guess.

Author: ```suggestion
- `AstroConfigRefinedSchema` (refined): a schema that handles extra validations. Due to constraints imposed by the Astro architecture, transforms and refinements can't be part on the `AstroConfig` schema because integrations deal with the output of this schema. As a result, this schema runs after parsing the user config and after every integration `astro:config:setup` hook (to make sure `updateConfig() has been called with valid config)`.
```
What do you think about this?

Reviewer 2: Seems better but Ema said we _do_ run transforms on the `AstroConfig` schema?

Reviewer: `AstroConfig` is the transformed schema. Paths start as `string`, and then transformed to `URL`. The transformed schema is used throughout the application.

This is an implementation detail worth mentioning, but it doesn't concern the end users

Author: I removed the part about transforms
